# Logging

# Elastic Stack

   - Elastic Search
   - Logstash
   - Beat
   - Kibana

### ElasticSearch

  Elasticsearch is a highly scalable open-source full-text search and analytics engine. It allows you to store, search, and analyze big volumes of data quickly and in near real time. It is generally used as the underlying engine/technology that powers applications that have complex search features and requirements.
  
**Installation**
 
 Installing elastic search on Ubuntu Machine.
 
 ```
 $ wget https://artifacts.elastic.co/downloads/elasticsearch/elasticsearch-6.3.0.deb
 $ dpkg -i https://artifacts.elastic.co/downloads/elasticsearch/elasticsearch-6.3.0.deb
 ```
**Configuration**

 After installation need to configure,
 
 ```
 $ vim /etc/elasticsearch/elasticsearch.yaml
    """
    cluster.name: <name>
    node.name: <node-name>
    network.host: <ip of machine>
    """
 ```
 
 Now, need to change one VM level configuration,
 ```
 $ sysctl -w vm.max_map_count=262144
 ```
 
 Now, Restart elastic search
 ```
 $ service elasticsearch start
 ```
 
 By default elastic search runs on default port `9200`
 
 ```
 $ curl http://localhost:9200
 ```
 
## ElasticSearch Componenets

  **Cluster**
  
   - Collection of nodes
   - Identified by unique
   
  **Node**
  
   - Master Node
     - Light weight node
     - Responsible for cluster Management
     - Ensures the cluster is stable
     - It is not recommended to send index or search request to this node
  - Data Node
     - Responsible for storing actual data
     - Participiates in index processing
  - Client Node
     - Acts as a Load balancer for processing requests
     - Used to perform scatter/gather based operations like search
     - Neither stores the data nor participiates in cluster management
     - Relieves data node to do heavy duty of searching
 **Docuement**
 
   - Json Document stored in elasticsearch
   - Equvalent to a row in a relational database
   
**Index**

   - Collection of document having similar characteristics
   - Equivalent to a database instance in a relational database world.
   - Mappings which defines multiple types.
   - Logical namespace to map one or more  primary shards.
   - Can have zero or more replicas.
   - Supports time series indexing
 
**Type**
 
   - Equivalent to table in a relational database
   - Each type has a list of fields
   - Mapping defines how each field is analyzed
  
**ID**

   - Unique identifier to identify a document
   - Combination of index,type and id must be unique to be able to identify a document deterministically
   - The user can specify the id but id can also be auto generated by Elasticsearch if it is not provided

**Shards**

   - Logical unit to store data
   - Each Document is stored in a single primary shard.
   - By default each index has 5 shards.
   - Number of shards cannot be changed  after index creation.

**Replicas**

   - Each index can have 0 or more replicas
   - Helps with fail over, performance
   - Replicas are never stored on the same node as primary shard node.
   - can be changed after index creation.
  
**Mapping**

  - Equivalent to schema in relational database.
  - Each index has mappings which define each type within a index.
  - Can be defined explicity or it will  generated automatically.
  
**Analysis**
  
  - Process of converting full text to terms
  - Texts are broken depending upon type of analyzers.
  
**Snapshot and Restore**

  - Used for index backup and restore
  - Supports full or incremental index backup
   
